.TH GETORB 1 "October 31, 2010"
.SH NAME
getorb \- program to interpolate the ODR files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getorb
.RI [t=|ymd=|mjd=|doy=|sec=] " t0 " [,t1,dt] " " [+] "path"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.B getorb
allows you to interpolate the DUT orbit at any required epoch (during the
span of the data files) or for a range of epochs.
The program prints out time (UTC), error value, latitude, longitude,
orbital altitude (GRS80), and XYZ (Earth Fixed).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B t0
epoch for the orbit interpolation in various date formats.
.TP
.B t0,t1,dt
start and end epoch (as above) and step size (in seconds) for the orbit
interpolation.
.TP
.B ymd=
indicates that the epochs are specified as [YY]YYMMDD.DDD or
[YY]YYMMDDHHMMSS.SSS.
You may use the extra century indication, but it is not necessary for any
date between 1950 and 2049.
.TP
.B mjd=
indicates that the epochs are in Modified Julian Dates (MJD).
.TP
.B doy=
is used when epochs are specied as [YY]YYDDD.DDD (year and day of year).
.TP
.B sec=
specifies epochs in UTC seconds since 1 January 1985.
.TP
.B [t=]
it is an optional prefix.
In will try to identify whether MJD.D, [YY]YYMMDD.D, or [YY]YYMMDDHHMMSS.S
where specified (same as when t= is omitted.
After 2003 the use of prefix t= will not properly recognise MJD.D,
use prefix mjd= instead.
.TP
.B path
full or relative path name of the directory in which the ODR files are stored.
When a + is added in front of the path name, the path name is considered to
be of a single ODR file.
.SH EXAMPLES
  getorb mjd=50001.500 /home/ers2/ODR
  getorb ymd=991231235959,000101000159,60 .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lodr (1),
.BR mdate (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
getorb was written by Remko Scharroo.
.PP
This manual page was written by Antonio Valentino <antonio.valentino@tiscali.it>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
