.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MDATE 1 "October 31, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mdate \- program to convert almost any date format to others
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdate
.RI [\-format] " date"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Since the Delft orbits are time tagged in seconds from 1985 and you may like
to handle year-month-day, year-dayofyear, or MJD, date conversions are often
necessary.
You'll see in getorb_main.f how this is done with the subroutines sec85 and
mdate.
These two routines are also at the heart of a nice little tool what runs
from the command line.
It accepts almost any from of input date and writes it out in almost any
date format you like too.
In addition it can add some extra time to the data you give.
Very practical to determine the day of tomorrow.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B date
can be of the form:
 YYMMDD.DDD       = Year-month-day and fractions of day
 YYYYMMDD.DDD     = idem
 YYDDD.DDD        = Year, day of the year and fractions of day
 YYYYDDD.DDD      = idem
 MJD.DDD          = Modified Julian Day and fractions of day
 YYMMDDHHMMSS.SSS = year-month-day hour-minute-seconds and fractions of seconds
 YYYYMMDDHHMMSS.S = idem
 SEC85.SSS        = UTC seconds since 1985 and fraction of seconds
.TP
.B \format
specifies the date format (if not specified, it is guessed
 \-y  = YYMMDD.DDD or YYYYMMDD.DD
 \-l  = YYMMDDHHMMSS.S or YYYYMMDDHHMMSS.S
 \-d  = YYDDD.DDD or YYYYDDD.DD
 \-m  = MJD.DDD
 \-s  = SEC85.SSS
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getorb (1),
.BR lodr (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
mdate was written by Remko Scharroo.
.PP
This manual page was written by Antonio Valentino <antonio.valentino@tiscali.it>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
